.TH bini "1" "June 2007" "Christopher Wellons" "binitools"
.SH NAME
bini - pack a BINI file from a text ini file
.SH SYNOPSIS
bini [options] [-o 
.I output-file
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bini
packs a text file into a "binary ini" (BINI) file. It is meant to be
used along with the
.B unbini
tool, which can unpack a BINI file into its text version for
convenient editing.
.PP
.B bini
will also help keep track of backups for you. Before writing an output
file, it will check for an exiting file of the same name. If output
file already exists, it will backup this file by appending ".bak". If
a backup file already exists, no backup is made. This will allow you
to continually repack and edit a file without losing the original BINI
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-o file"
Set the output file. When this option is not specified, the output
file is the input file name with the ".txt" removed. If the input file
does not contain ".txt", ".ini" will be concatenated.
.IP -t
Print the string table. This option will cause 
.B bini
to print the string table of the BINI file. This can be useful with
the -n option for simply viewing a BINI string table.
.IP -s
Summarize the BINI file details. Information about the BINI file is
output, such as the number of sections, entries, and values. This is
also useful with the -n option.
.IP -n
Do not output a file. No output file is created.
.IP -v
Verbose mode.
.IP -c
Concatenate all input files into one output file (requires -o option).
.IP -q
Don't print message at start up.
.IP -h
Print usage information. (help)
.SH BUGS
The Windows builds of this software will sometimes flip floating point
zeros signs from positive to negative. The underlying BINI file should
not be effected. This may be a problem when trying to 
.B diff
unpacked BINI files.
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher Wellons <ccw129@psu.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unbini (1),
.BR diff (1)
