.TH unbini "1" "June 2007" "Christopher Wellons" "binitools"
.SH NAME
unbini - unpack a BINI file into a text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
unbini [options] [-o 
.I output-file
]
.I file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unbini
unpacks a "binary ini" (BINI) file into a text format that can easily
be viewed and edited using any text editor. It is meant to be used
with the
.B bini
tool, which can repack this text version into a BINI file.
.PP
In the text file, all strings are wrapped in quotes, including entry
and section names. This is different from other BINI tools. Because of
this, you should be careful when mixing these tools with other BINI
tools.
.PP
For details on the format of the BINI file text files, see the 
.B info
documentation for the
.B bini
and 
.B unbini
tools.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-o file"
Set the output file. When this option is not specified, the output
file is the input file name with ".txt" concatenated.
.IP -t
Print the string table. This option will cause 
.B unbini
to print the string table of the BINI file. This can be useful with
the -n option for simply viewing a BINI string table.
.IP -s
Summarize the BINI file details. Information about the BINI file is
output, such as the number of sections, entries, and values. This is
also useful with the -n option.
.IP -n
Do not output a file. No output file is created. The BINI file may not
even be fully analyzed depending on other input options, such as -s
and -t.
.IP -v
Verbose mode.
.IP -w
Use standard INI output. Strings will not be quoted in the
output. This will make output more compatible with other BINI
tools. The
.B bini
tools cannot repack this file, however.
.IP -c
Concatenate all input files into one output file (requires -o option).
.IP -q
Don't print message at start up.
.IP -h
Print usage information. (help)
.SH BUGS
The Windows builds of this software will sometimes flip floating point
zeros signs from positive to negative. The underlying BINI file should
not be effected. This may be a problem when trying to 
.B diff
unpacked BINI files.
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher Wellons <ccw129@psu.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bini (1),
.BR diff (1)
